Paper: CLAIMED, a visual and scalable component library for Trusted AI (#628)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/ivan_nesic/claimed.rst

:author: Romeo Kienzler
:email: romeo.kienzler@ch.ibm.com
:institution: IBM, Center for Open Source Data and AI Technologies (CODAIT)

:author: Ivan Nesic
:email: ivan.nesic@usb.ch
:institution: University Hospital of Basel
:orcid: 0000-0002-4373-8860

---------------------------------------------------------------
CLAIMED, a visual and scalable component library for Trusted AI
---------------------------------------------------------------

.. class:: abstract

   Deep Learning models are getting more and more popular but constraints on explainability, adversarial robustness and fairness are often major concerns for production deployment. Although the open source ecosystem is abundant on addressing those concerns, fully integrated, end to end systems are lacking in open source.

>    Therefore we provide an entirely open source, reusable component framework, visual editor and execution engine for production grade machine learning on top of Kubernetes, a joint effort between IBM and the University Hospital Basel. It uses Kubeflow Pipelines, the AI Explainability360 toolkit, the AI Fairness360 toolkit and the Adversarial Robustness Toolkit on top of ElyraAI, Kubeflow, Kubernetes and JupyterLab. Using the Elyra pipeline editor, AI pipelines can be developed visually with a set of jupyter notebooks. We explain how we've created a COVID-19 deep learning classification pipeline based on CT scans. We use the toolkit to highlight parts of the images which have been crucial for the model’s decisions. We detect bias against age and gender and finally, show how to deploy the model to KFServing to share it across different hospital data centers of the Swiss Personalized Health Network.

Reviewer: > We explain how we’ve created a COVID-19 deep learning classification pipeline based on CT scans. We use the toolkit to highlight parts of the images which have been crucial for the model’s decisions. We detect bias against age and gender and finally, show how to deploy the model to KFServing to share it across different hospital data centers of the Swiss Personalized Health Network.

That's a lot of words to say "To exemplify the use of CLAIMED, we show a toy workflow to train, debug and deploy of a deep learning model that determines if CT scans are positive for COVID-19."

When I first read this abstract, I expected to see detailed experiments on age and gender, detailed experiments on COVID-19 image classification (that had reasonable accuracy), and detailed experiments on deployment (including config scripts).

Reviewer: > an entirely open source, reusable component framework, visual editor and execution engine

What does your software do, or what actions are possible with your software? I'm not sure why I'd care about a "visual editor," "reusable component framework" or "execution engine."

Why do you mention Jupyter notebooks, ElyraAI, KubeFlow, Kubernetes and JupyterLab in the abstract? What *features* do they add to your tool?

Author: This was addressed as of this commit 9cb2543.

.. class:: keywords

    Kubernetes, Kubeflow, JupyterLab, ElyraAI, KFServing, TrustedAI, AI Explainability, AI Fairness, AI Adversarial Robustness

> Introduction

Reviewer: I think good introductions give solid reasoning for the software tool. What problem would you like to address, and why is your software necessary? What users would find it useful?

I find an answer to that question a lot more valuable in the introduction then "what is our software built from?"

Reviewer: The subsections in the intro are below:

* Containerization and Kubernetes
* Deep Learning with TensorFlow
* Kubeflow
* ElyraAI
* JupyterLab
* AI Explainability
* AI Fairness and Bias
* AI Adversarial Robustness

Which sections describe core features of your library? Which sections describe the implementation of those core features?

Author: The introduction has been modified to better answer suggested questions and make it more readable (commit 65f7ac0a).

============

Open source software for performing individual AI pipeline tasks are
abundant, but the community lacks a fully integrated, trusted and
scalable visual tool. Therefore we have built CLAIMED, the visual
**C**\ omponent **L**\ ibrary for **AI**, **M**\ achine Learning,

> **E**\ TL and **D**\ ata Science which runs on top of ElyraAI capable of

Reviewer 2: I am a bit uncomfortable with this acronym ETL used to define the main acronym CLAIMED: I understand ETL is meant to be a very known acronym, perhaps a footnote expanding ETL could be added? IBM itself propose a nice [explanatory page](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/etl) about ETL.

Reviewer: I'd appreciate a better definition of ETL; I'm unfamiliar with that acronym.

Author: How does this look to you 6021b270?

pushing AI pipelines of any kind to Kubernetes [kubernetes]_. Any containerized
application can become a component of the library. CLAIMED has been
released [complib]_ under the Apache v2 open source license. In the following
we introduce the open source components we are integrating in our
current release, followed by an overview of different component
categories paired with a description of exemplary components used in
health care. This pipeline is also available in open source  [ect]_.

> Containerization and Kubernetes

Reviewer: Why are these sections in the introduction? Do they introduce your software and explain why your software is necessary?

Generally, I care a lot more about what your software can be used for and what features it has. After I understand the problem, I'll look into how the software is built.

Author: This is fixed in 9cb25432. I hope it is good now, but additional input is always welcome.

infrastructure, mainly the ability to run different operating systems on
the same hardware at the same time. Next step of isolation can be
performed for each of the microservices running on the server, but
instead of managing access rights and resources on the host operating
system, we can containerize these in separate packages with their own
environments. Practical effect of this is that we are running each of
the microservices as if they have their own dedicated virtual machine,
but without the overhead of such endeavour. This is accomplished by
running containers on top of the host operating system. An example of
the containerization platform is Docker.

Containerization made it possible to run a large number of containers,
which introduced the need of their orchestration. This means something,
and hopefully not someone, needs to constantly take care that the system
is in the desired state, it needs to scale up or down, manage
communication between containers, schedule them, manage authentications,
balance the load etc. Although there are other options like Docker
Swarm, Kubernetes is the market leader in this domain. It was donated to

> CNCF [cncf]_ by Google, which means a lot of Google’s know-how and years of

Reviewer 2: I believe this is the first occurrence of the CNCF acronym: do you mind giving the extended definition here? Thanks.

Author: Added full definition in this commit 2c8b80e

Author: thanks for pointing it out

> experience went into it. The system can run on public, on-prem or on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
experience went into it. The system can run on public, on-premises or on
```
I am in favor of avoiding abridged words when possible (see also below), for clarity.

Author: This really does make sense, and I am a proponent of it myself. The only issue with the proposed change is that the industry standard for the term is **on-premise**, which rubs some grammar people the wrong way. In that camp, the consensus is we should use **on-premises**. Finally, most people from both camps tend to at least tolerate **on-prem**.
Adam Fowler had some thoughts on it too ([link](https://www.adamfowlerit.com/2017/04/premise-vs-premises-cares/)) and, based on the last update from a linguist in the comment section, it's even alright for us to use the term **on-premise**. It's a conundrum.

The other one is clear (the one below).

Reviewer 2: Even without being an expert, when I read 'on-premises' or 'on-premise' I can guess the meaning if I know a bit of English, because I have a full word to understand. With 'on-prem' I need to search for it on internet, because this is an abbreviation... that's what I did and I learned something, thanks for that...
To quote your reference "On-Premise vs On-Premises – Who Cares?", both are closer to plain English than 'on-prem', in my opinion.

Author: thank you, changed to on-premises

hybrid clouds. On-prem installation is very important for institutions
dealing with sensitive data. For IBM, Kubernetes is also strategic,
joining CNCF, having moved all Watson Services to Kubernetes and aquired

> RedHat, IBM is now 3rd largest committer to Kubernetes [ibmcncf]_.

Reviewer 2: I find the sentence too compact: Kubernetes is strategic to IBM because it is the 3rd largest committer, or because it moved all Watson services to Kubernetes? Or it became largest committer because they moved to Kubernetes... or ...
Do you mind expanding the sentence? This will clarify the cause - effect relations. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: Thanks! Let me put the following in if you are ok: 
For IBM, Kubernetes is also strategic. This is mainly because Kubernetes enables the hybrid cloud scenario backed by an
open source common runtime capable of transparently moving workload across different on-prem, remote and cloud data centers seamlessly. Besides acting as a Kubernetes runtime provider in the cloud and - through the aquisition of RedHat - becoming the major vendor for on-prem Kubernetes, IBM is now able to deliver software solution on top of Kubernetes, making them run everywhere. Therefore, IBM joined CNCF,  moved all Watson Services to Kubernetes and aquired RedHat. This makes IBM the 3rd largest committer to Kubernetes.

Reviewer 3: added to document in commit b76ef663e9fc7edffb5fa2b0b2f11a1632cf9c0b

Deep Learning with TensorFlow
-----------------------------

> It is the second incarnation of the Google Brain project’s scalable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TensorFlow is the second incarnation of the Google Brain project’s scalable
```

Author: much clearer, thanks

distributed training and inference system named DistBelief
[tf]_. It supports myriad of hardware platforms, from
mobile phones to GPU/TPU clusters, for both training and inference. It
can even run in browser on the client’s side, without the data ever
leaving the machine. Apart from being a valuable tool in research, it is
also being used in demanding production environments. On a development
side, representing machine learning algorithms in a tree-like structures
makes it a very good expression interface. Lastly, on the performance vs

> usability side, both eager and graph modes are supported. Meaning

Reviewer 2: If I understand correctly eager execution is specific to TensorFlow, for non expert readers it could be useful to have a note explaining what eager execution is (the [TensorFlow documentation](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/eager) is quite clear itself).

Author: I hope this explains it better da6bc79c

of Kubernetes scalability it allows for reproducible work as machine
learning pipelines and the results and intermediate artifacts of their
executions are stored in a meta data repository.

ElyraAI
-------

ElyraAI [elyra]_ started as a set of extensions for the JupyterLab ecosystem.
Here we concentrate on the pipeline editor of ElyraAI which allows for
expression of machine learning workflows using a drag’n’drop editor and
send them for execution on top of different engines like Kubeflow or
Airflow. This allows for non-programmers to read and understand but also
create machine learning workflows. ElyraAI also supports visualizing
such pipelines in the browser (e.g. from a github repository).

JupyterLab
----------

JupyterLab [jupyter]_ is one of the most popular development environments for data
science. Therefore we started to support JupyterLab first. But the
pipeline editor of ElyraAI will be supported in other environments as
well, VSCode being next on the list.

AI Explainability
-----------------

Besides their stunning performance, deep learning models face a lot of
resistance for production usage because they are considered to be a

> black box. Technically (and mathematically) deep learning models are a

Reviewer 2: Feel free to choose between ''Technically" and "mathematically", the two of them are redundant.

Author: Fixed in  35ca321

Author: Thanks for pointing it out!

> series of non-linear feature space transformations - sounds scary, but

Reviewer: Style nit: I'd remove this sentence. A "non-linear feature space transformation" does not "sound scary" to me.

Author: This should be good now, fixed in 4c0858f, or check the newer commit 35ca321.

in other words, per definition it is very hard to understand the
individual processing steps a deep learning network performs. But

> techniques exist to look over a deep learning model’s shoulder. The one

Reviewer 2: This is a suggestion to avoid unnecessary words and subjective claims.
```suggestion
series of non-linear feature space transformations, it is hard to understand the
individual processing steps a deep learning network performs.
Techniques exist to look over a deep learning model’s shoulder. The one
```

we are using here is called LIME [lime]_. LIME takes the
existing classification model and permutes images taken from the
validation set (therefore the real class label is known) as long as a
misclassification is happening. That way LIME can be used to create heat
maps as image overlays to indicate regions of images which are most
relevant for the classifier to perform best. In other words, we identify
regions of the image the classifier is looking at.

As Fig. :ref:`limefig` illustrates, the most relevant areas in an image
for classifying for COVID-19 are areas containing bones over lung tissue
which indicates a problem with that particular classifier.

.. figure:: lime2.png

   Example on how LIME helps to identify classification relevant
   areas of an image. :label:`limefig`

> AI Fairness and Bias

Reviewer: > It turns out that it isn’t that simple.
> Fairness assessment and bias detection is an art on it’s own.

Citations needed.

Reviewer 3: removed artistic expressions in commit 7f77346902d39ff3e37e0b71fe7ba495b972d0d3

please let me know if this is what you've imagined

the Linux Foundation AI and therefore is under open governance.

AI Adversarial Robustness
-------------------------

Another pillar of Trusted AI is adversarial robustness. As researchers
found out, adversarial noise can be introduced in data (data poisoning)
or models (model poisoning) to influence models decisions in favor of
the adversarial. Libraries like the Adversarial Robustness Toolbox
ART [art]_ support all state-of-the-art attacks and
defenses.

System Implementation and Demo Use Case
=======================================

A TrustedAI image classification pipeline
-----------------------------------------

As already mentioned previously, pipelines are a great way to introduce
reproducibility, scaling, auditability and collaboration in machine
learning. Pipelines are often a central part of a ML-Ops strategy. This
especially holds for TrustedAI pipelines since reproducibility and
auditability are even more important there. Figure :ref:`pipeline`
illustrates the exemplary TrustedAI pipeline we have built using the
component library and figure :ref:`kfp` is a screenshot taken from
Kubeflow displaying the pipeline after finishing it’s run.

> .. figure:: elyra_pipeline.png

Reviewer: This figure is not readable. I can't determine the function of any of the blocks. It might be more clear to have a simpler and readable workflow (as expressed on *[AI Pipelines](https://elyra.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user_guide/pipelines.html)*).

Author: Just to understand correctly, you suggest the image should contain explanations like on the Elyra page you provided?
e.g. like this
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2835130/122767013-77b7c800-d2a2-11eb-860f-4a20e35b5655.png)

Reviewer 3: I think it is too small. I've zoomed in and stripped away unnecessary parts - can you please have a [look](https://github.com/fatkaratekid/scipy_proceedings/commit/cb1332a6a970b8bdbd0f449cd53c08ca40c4ae15) now?

Reviewer 3: commit cb1332a6a970b8bdbd0f449cd53c08ca40c4ae15

   The exemplary TrustedAI pipeline for the health care use case. :label:`pipeline`

> Pipeline Components

Reviewer: Is this section it explanation of a particular set of components? Or is a list of every set of components? I'd appreciate both; isn't the pipeline the core feature of your software?

Reviewer 3: This section exemplifies each (currently existing) category with at least one component which has been used for this particular pipelines. There exist more components not part of this pipeline. The core feature of our software is threefold.

- the CLAIMED component library
- Elyra (which is developed in open source by the IBM team I'm working with) with it's capability to use CLAIMED to create a pipeline and push it to KubeFlow
- the pipeline itself

please see respective commit 23cd1d7233aa8987163b14d09a72ae03837126bd

repository via a public and permanent link. We just pull the
metadata.csv and images folder. The component library will contain a
component for each different type of data source like files and
databases.

.. figure:: kfp.png

   The pipeline once executed in Kubeflow. :label:`kfp`

Transform Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes, transformations on the metadata (or any other structured
dataset) are necessary. Therefore, we provide a generic transformation
component - in this case we just used it to change to format of the
categories as the original file contained forward slashes which made it
hard to use on the file system. We just need to specify the column name
and function to be applied on that column.

Filter Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to changing content of rows in a data set also removing rows is
a common task in data engineering - therefore the filter stage allows
for exactly that. It is enough to provide a predicate - in this case the
predicate ``~metadata.filename.str.contains('.gz')`` removes invalid
images.

Image Transformer Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: images_folder_tree.png

>    De facto standard in folder structure for image classification data. :label:`imgdir`

Reviewer 2: As per comment ~below~ above
```suggestion
   Final folder structure for image classification data. :label:`imgdir`
```

Author: This has been resolved by the same commit as the one above e0ccca0

The de facto standard for labeled image data is putting images into one
folder per class/category. But in this particular case, the raw data

> isn’t in the required format. It’s just a folder full of images and

Reviewer 2: There is no need to refer to a standard that is not followed by the actual data, especially if this standard is not documented.
A simple description of the data structure will be enough and will improve readability
```suggestion
The raw images are contained in a folder and
```

Author: Thanks for taking the time to make these suggestions. I have rewritten the whole part to make it more readable. Please take a look at this commit e0ccca0

I hope it is now clear that we want to convert the data into the structure that can be consumed by TF's API.

Author: A small modification to the text also done by the commit 6ccb03b

their properties are described in a separate CSV file. In addition to
the class (or label) - finding in this case - this CSV file also
contains information on the gender and age. So first, we just use the
information on the finding label given in the CSV file and arrange the
images in the appropriate folder structure, as illustrated in
Fig. :ref:`imgdir`

Training Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Understanding, defining and training deep learning models is an art on

> it’s own. Training a deep learning image classification model requires a

Reviewer 2: > Understanding, defining and training deep learning models is an art on its own. Luckily ...

This sentence appears twice in the text, literally. In both cases, is it really necessary?

Reviewer 3: addressed by 7f77346902d39ff3e37e0b71fe7ba495b972d0d3

the other execution engines CLAIMED supports.

Create more (exemplary) pipelines
---------------------------------
At the moment, CLAIMED ships with three exemplary pipelines. The health
care inspired TrustedAI pipeline which was covered in this paper,
a pipeline to visualize and predict soil temperature from a historic
data set and an IoT sensor data analysis pipeline. The next pipeline
in line is a genomics pipeline for the Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics affiliates University Hospital Berne/Berne University
and potentially for particle physics at CERN.

Conclusion
==========
We’ve build a trustable, low-code, scalable and open source
component library, targeting visual data pipeline systems. We've
showcased the library's capabilities by building a domain specific pipeline
on  Elyra, an emerging visual pipeline editor and running it on widely used
Kubeflow execution engine. We believe that future import/export functionality of
CLAIMED will improve reproducibility of data centric work even further.

References
----------
.. [bias] Steinbock, Bonnie (1978). *Speciesism and the Idea of Equality*, Philosophy, 53 (204): 247–256, doi:10.1017/S0031819100016582

> .. [aif360] AI Fairness 360 Toolkit, https://github.com/Trusted-AI/AIF360. Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

Reviewer 4: Please cite this software: https://github.com/Trusted-AI/AIF360#citing-aif360

> .. [aix360] AI Explainability 360 Toolkit, https://github.com/Trusted-AI/AIX360 Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

Reviewer 4: Please cite this software: https://github.com/Trusted-AI/AIX360#citing-ai-explainability-360

Author: fix it, thanks

.. [elyra] Elyra AI, https://github.com/elyra-ai. Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

.. [kubernetes] Kubernetes, https://kubernetes.io/. Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

> .. [jupyter] JupyterLab, https://jupyter.org/. Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

Reviewer 4: Please cite this software: https://github.com/jupyter/jupyter/issues/190#issuecomment-721264013

Author: For Jupyter they recommend this Zenodo DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.4539666 at this link https://jupyterbook.org/cite.html. Maybe we should go for this one, it respects the contributors' wishes. It is not aesthetically nice as your suggestion though.

Author: thanks for the ref

.. [kfserving] KFServing, https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/serving/kfserving Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

.. [lime] Marco Tulio Ribeiro et al. *"Why Should I Trust You?": Explaining the Predictions of Any Classifier*, Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, San Francisco, CA, USA, pp. 1135–1144 (2016), doi:10.1145/2939672.2939778

.. [kubeflow] https://www.kubeflow.org/ Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

> .. [katib] Katib, https://github.com/kubeflow/katib. Last accessed 18 Feb 2021

Reviewer 4: Please cite this software: https://github.com/kubeflow/katib#citation

Author: done 7375746
Thanks a lot for the link!

:author: Romeo Kienzler
:email: romeo.kienzler@ch.ibm.com
:institution: IBM, Center for Open Source Data and AI Technologies (CODAIT)

:author: Ivan Nesic
:email: ivan.nesic@usb.ch
:institution: University Hospital of Basel
:orcid: 0000-0002-4373-8860

---------------------------------------------------------------
CLAIMED, a visual and scalable component library for Trusted AI
---------------------------------------------------------------

.. class:: abstract

   CLAIMED is a component library for artificial intelligence, machine learning,
   "extract, transform, load" processes and data science.
   The goal is to enable low-code/no-code rapid prototyping by providing
   ready-made components for various business domains,
   supporting various computer languages, working on various data flow editors and
   running on diverse execution engines.
   To demonstrate its utility, we constructed a workflow composed exclusively of CLAIMED components.

>    For this purpose, we made use of a publicly available CT scans dataset [covidata]_

Reviewer 2: Computed Tomography (CT) scans... ?

Reviewer 3: thanks, fixed in 1f4d6f9459c2a7a4a2ba955ae34bacf28ba29323

   and created a deep learning model, which is supposed to classify exams as either
   COVID-19 positive or negative. The pipeline was built with Elyra's Pipeline Visual Editor,
   with support for local, Airflow and Kubeflow execution.

.. class:: keywords

    Kubernetes, Kubeflow, JupyterLab, Elyra, KFServing, TrustedAI,
    AI Explainability, AI Fairness, AI Adversarial Robustness

Introduction
============

Monolithic scripts are often used for prototyping, but for production deployments, we need tools like
Slurm [slurm]_, Snakemake [snakemake]_, QSub [qsub]_, HTCondor [htcondor]_, Apache Nifi [nifi]_,
NodeRED [nodered]_, KNIME [knime]_, Galaxy [galaxy]_, 
Reana [reana]_, WEKA [weka]_, Rabix [rabix]_, Nextflow [nextflow]_, OpenWDL [openwdl]_, CWL [cwl]_

> or Cromwell [cromwell]_.

Reviewer 2: This is an impressive list of tools, but I'm missing the information about why they are needed.
The answer is indeed in the next paragraph.
Perhaps it could be of help to clarify the production requirements first, then list the number of available tools. This will show how complex the picture is because of the requirements and how useful is a tool like the one you propose.

Reviewer 3: Thanks a lot for the suggestion. We've addressed your comment in 34778253a0fac2000650dd4bee1f8823e6a7f89d

- seamless scaling during development and deployment
- GPU support
- pre-build components for various business domains
- support for the complete python and R tooling including Apache Spark,
  TensorFlow, PyTorch, pandas and scikit-learn
- seamless extensibility
- reproducibility of work
- data lineage
- collaboration support

Therefore we have built an extensible component library to be used in low-code / no-code
environments called CLAIMED - the visual
**C**\ omponent **L**\ ibrary for **A**\rtificial **I**\nteligence (AI), **M**\achine Learning (ML),
**E**\xtract, Transform, Load (ETL) and **D**\ ata Science.
In the following section we elaborate on the implementation
details followed by a description of an exemplary pipeline to showcase
the capabilities of CLAIMED. We continue on to elaborate on different ideas
how CLAIMED can be improved in the "Future Work" section, finally followed by the conclusion.

Implementation
==============

Before we address how CLAIMED fulfills the previously defined requirements and how the
exemplary workflow has been constructed, we will introduce some terms and technologies.

> Technology breakdown

Reviewer 2: I like the choice for the title of this section.
My understanding is that a list of critical concepts for the implementation will follow: containerization, deep learning, ..., explainability, fairness.
Do you mind making more explicit what types of technology breakdown are covered by Kubeflow, Elyra, JupyterLab? In particular, is JupyterLab covering a technology breakdown or its place is more in the implementation part, among the requirements? As listed here
https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/blob/e03cec9ff666247c8dff59bac975358198ea567d/papers/ivan_nesic/claimed.rst#L304-L316

Reviewer 3: Thanks a lot, we addressed your concerns in c39b989e070c5ca8d1e5dc35c7e7aa2a418d534e - please let us know it it fits to what you had in mind

authentication needs to be managed, there is the need for load balancing etc.
There are multiple optins on the market, but Kubernetes is the market leader in this domain.
It was donated to Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) [cncf]_ by Google,
which means a lot of Google’s know-how and years of experience went into it.
The system can run on public, on-premises or on hybrid clouds.
On-premises installation is very important for institutions
dealing with sensitive data. For IBM, Kubernetes is also strategic. 
This is mainly because Kubernetes enables the hybrid cloud scenario 
backed by an open source common runtime capable of transparently moving workload
across different on-premises, remote and cloud data centers seamlessly.
Besides acting as a Kubernetes runtime provider in the cloud and - 
through the acquisition of RedHat - becoming the major vendor for 
on-premises Kubernetes, IBM is now able to deliver software solutions
- so called "Cloud Paks" - on top of Kubernetes, making them run everywhere.
Therefore, IBM joined CNCF [ibmcncf]_, moved all Watson Services to Kubernetes
and acquired RedHat. This makes IBM the 3rd largest committer to

> Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: May I suggest to short sentences for readability?
Something like (I'm using github suggestions to make the diff explicit, not to feed you with my words... :) )
```suggestion
IBM acts as a Kubernetes runtime provider in the cloud and - 
through the acquisition of RedHat - has become the major vendor for 
on-premises Kubernetes. IBM is now able to deliver software solutions
- so called "Cloud Paks" - on top of Kubernetes, making them run everywhere.
Therefore, IBM joined CNCF [ibmcncf]_, and moved all Watson Services to Kubernetes.
This makes IBM the 3rd largest committer to Kubernetes.
```

Reviewer 3: Thanks, we've shortened in 9fbd4aee47d5ee0b5aae58376bbf659d7cef0aa5 to 

IBM acts as a Kubernetes runtime provider in the cloud and - 
through the acquisition of RedHat - has become the major vendor for 
on-premises Kubernetes. IBM is now able to deliver software solutions - so 
called "Cloud Paks" - on top of Kubernetes, making them run everywhere **(hybrid cloud)**.
Therefore, IBM joined CNCF [ibmcncf]_, and moved all Watson Services to Kubernetes.
This makes IBM the 3rd largest committer to Kubernetes.
**Not only for IBM but also for us, Kubernetes enables the hybrid cloud scenario of 
transparently moving workload
across different on-premises, remote and cloud data centers seamlessly.**

Just added "hybrid cloud" to your suggestion and a sentence at the bottom to close the loop of requirements to our use case as well.

.. figure:: elyra_pipeline_zoomed.png

   The exemplary TrustedAI pipeline for the health care use case. :label:`pipeline`

Pipeline Components
-------------------

This section exemplifies each existing category with at
least one component which has been used for this particular pipeline. 
There are also other components that are not part of the pipeline,
so they haven't been shown here.
Please note that the core feature of our software is threefold:

- the CLAIMED component library
- Elyra with it's capability to use CLAIMED to create a pipeline 
  and push it to Kubeflow
- the pipeline itself

Input Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are input components for different types
of data source, like files and databases.

In this particular case, we’re pulling data directly from the GitHub
repository via a public and permanent link [covidata]_. We only pull the
metadata.csv and images directory.

.. figure:: kfp.png

   The pipeline once executed in Kubeflow. :label:`kfp`

Transform Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes, transformations on the metadata, or any other structured
dataset, are necessary. Therefore, we provide a generic transformation

> component - in the example, we just used it to change to format of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
component - in the example, we used it to change to format of the
```

Reviewer 3: thanks! fixed in 4c88ad49c34d4fcf39b600e31add50d8e2d56c91

categories as the original file contained forward slashes which made it
hard to use on the underlying operating system. This is performed by

> simply specifying a column name and a function that is to be applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specifying a column name and a function that is to be applied.
```

Reviewer 3: thanks! fixed in 4c88ad49c34d4fcf39b600e31add50d8e2d56c91

Future Work
===========
We have financial support to add functionality to CLAIMED in multiple
dimensions. Below we give a summary of the next steps.

Extend component library
------------------------

To this date, at least one representative component for each category has
been released. Components are added to the library on a regular basis. 
The components due to be published are: Parallel Tensorflow Training with
TFJob, Parallel Hyperparameter Tuning with Katib and Parallel Data
Processing with Apache Spark.

Component exporter for Kubeflow
-------------------------------

Containerizing notebooks and scripts is a frequent task in the data science community.
In our environment, this involves attaching the arbitrary assets,
like jupyter notebooks and scripts, to a container image and then
transpiling a Kubeflow component out of it.
We are currently in the process of implementing a tool that would facilitate this workflow.
The name of the tool is C3 [c3]_, and it stands for CLAIMED component compiler.
Currently, transpiling from notebooks to Kubeflow Pipeline components is supported.
In addition, publishing these components to component repositories will also be possible.

> C3 already suports publishing components to Machine Learning Exchange (MLX) [mlx]_, an open source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C3 already supports publishing components to Machine Learning Exchange (MLX) [mlx]_, an open source
```

Reviewer 3: sorry for that! fixed in 4c88ad49c34d4fcf39b600e31add50d8e2d56c91
